README.md, before:

![Personal Logo for Brittani S Avery](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/5512676/96328651-09cc4a00-100b-11eb-9961-dec8c00913f7.png)

This is the code for my personal website, [brittanisavery.com](https://brittanisavery.com). Originally the site was created using the WYSIWYG builder provided by [wix.com](https://wix.com). However, after a redesign, I noticed that editing the site as well as adding new entries to my blog took much longer than before. Therefore, I decided to build my own site using the skills I have picked up as a software developer.

## ⚙ Technologies Used

- [React](https://reactjs.org/)
- [Typescript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/)
- [Next.js](https://nextjs.org/)
- [Bulma CSS Framework](https://bulma.io/)
- [Markdown-It](https://markdown-it.github.io/) + several plugins

## 📖 References

- [Next.js + Netlify Blog Template](https://github.com/wutali/nextjs-netlify-blog-template)
- [How to Make a Markdown Blog With Next.js by Jose Felix](https://jfelix.info/blog/how-to-make-a-static-blog-with-next-js)

## 📃 TODO List

- Resume Skills (Images)
- Autographed copies order form
- Newsletter sign-up
- Contact page
- Footer (Also Find Me)
  - Black Meredith Press
  - Social Media
- Blog Tags Pages (similar to regular blog page)
- Meta Data
  - Main Pages
  - Posts
  - Individual Projects

_Nice To Have's_

- Commenting for individual posts
  - Ability to reply as myself
  - Alert commenter of reply (send email?)

Commit message:

Add social media to Footer + finalize Footer layout

README.md, after:

![Personal Logo for Brittani S Avery](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/5512676/96328651-09cc4a00-100b-11eb-9961-dec8c00913f7.png)

This is the code for my personal website, [brittanisavery.com](https://brittanisavery.com). Originally the site was created using the WYSIWYG builder provided by [wix.com](https://wix.com). However, after a redesign, I noticed that editing the site as well as adding new entries to my blog took much longer than before. Therefore, I decided to build my own site using the skills I have picked up as a software developer.

## ⚙ Technologies Used

- [React](https://reactjs.org/)
- [Typescript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/)
- [Next.js](https://nextjs.org/)
- [Bulma CSS Framework](https://bulma.io/)
- [Markdown-It](https://markdown-it.github.io/) + several plugins

## 📖 References

- [Next.js + Netlify Blog Template](https://github.com/wutali/nextjs-netlify-blog-template)
- [How to Make a Markdown Blog With Next.js by Jose Felix](https://jfelix.info/blog/how-to-make-a-static-blog-with-next-js)

## 📃 TODO List

- Resume Skills (Images)
- Autographed copies order form
- Fix BSA site and coming soon cards on projects page
- Newsletter sign-up
- Add RSS to site
- Add "Enjoyed? Newsletter sign-up" and Next/Previous posts at end of blog
- Contact page
- Blog Tags Pages (similar to regular blog page)
- Meta Data
  - Main Pages
  - Posts
  - Individual Projects

_Nice To Have's_

- Commenting for individual posts
  - Ability to reply as myself
  - Alert commenter of reply (send email?)
