content/resume.md, before:

---
title: "Resume"
description: "The professional software developer resume of Brittani S Avery, detailing her 10+ years experience with a wide variety of languages."
thumbnail: meta/resume.png
thumbnailAlt: "A collage of the various computer languages and web frameworks Brittani has used as well as companies where Brittani worked throughout her software developer career."
---

# Resume

"Coder. Writer. Gamer. Nerd." is the tagline for my website and email signature, identifying the main portions of my personality. "Coder" is listed first due to my childhood spent in front of and surrounded by computers, which I discuss in [Part 1](/post/intro-of-me-the-coder) of my introduction posts. My education and profession as a software developer simply solidified that particular ID. Peruse through my professional resume! If you're looking to hire a freelancer, I am available to work. Please [book time with me](https://app.simplymeet.me/brittanisavery/project-consultation) and let's talk about your project. :smile:

## Profile

Self-motivated, full-stack developer with 10+ years of professional experience in software and web development. Renowned for a short learning curve, a wide range of knowledge on various technologies and techniques, and quick turnarounds. Effective in communicating ideas clearly to multicultural and distributed teams while working in an Agile environment. Fluent in French.

## Skills

Javascript :separator: Typescript :separator: React :separator: Redux/Context API :separator: Next.js :separator: Node.js :separator: RESTful APIs :separator: SQL :separator: MongoDB :separator: Java

## Professional Experience

### Senior Software Engineer

SimpleHealth | Remote  
2022–Present
Integrated the complexity of insurance-based payments for SimpleHealth, allowing more options for women and people with ovaries to get birth control easily.

- Developed a messaging system between the SimpleHealth app and the pharmacy API to simplify the workflow for pharmacists
- Built an automatic process to re-send previously failed messages (e.g. outages) to prevent the loss of information between SimpleHealth and the pharmacy
- Intercepted insurance API events and verified insurance copay amounts to charge customers correctly
- Tools: Javascript, Flow Type, React, Node.js, MySQL, Git

### Full-Stack Software Engineer

Science 37 | Remote
2021–2022  
Built the user interface to flagship product platform and deliver scalable solutions for new features that have the power
to positively impact millions.

- Integrated new feature for trial-based privacy policies, creating UI from mock-ups and API from requirements
- Reviewed code and pull requests to ensure architectural standards and code quality
- Tools: Javascript, React, NodeJS, MySQL, Git

### Frontend Developer

Plain Concepts | Remote  
2020–2021

Maintained and created React websites for various Microsoft projects such as [Microsoft Innovation](https://innovation.microsoft.com/en-us) with an emphasis on internationalization and accessibility as well as frequently changing designs.

- Implemented a new experience for the Microsoft Ignite 2020 conference within the first three weeks of hire
- Created a complex mobile gallery component for [Microsoft Worklab](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/worklab)'s Work Trend Index Reports
- Enhanced user experience for accessing medical articles by creating a newly designed [Microsoft Biomedical Search](https://biomedsearch.microsoft.com/en-us/)
- Tools: Javascript, React, Bootstrap, HTML, CSS, Git

### Software Developer

AgilityHealth | Remote  
2019–2020

Used knowledge from recreational development in React to help team jump start total application migration of
AgilityHealth Radar, the most popular application sold by ATI, from ASP.NET to React.

- Rebuilt the create and edit functionalities for companies in React/Material UI from the older ASP.NET application
- Provided expert knowledge of redux-form, acquired through on-the-job research, to help team overcome
  complex form issues
- Completed frequent design updates with limited turnaround
- Tools: Javascript, React, Redux, Redux-Saga, Material UI, C#, SQL Server

### Full Stack Developer

Conductix-Wampfler | Omaha, NE  
2018–2019

Recruited for vast knowledge of languages, frameworks and expertise in Atlassian products. Successfully became subject matter expert in creating and editing complex workflow validation and related scripts for robust software functionality.

- Created custom application that enabled engineers to generate and modify specifications for manufactured steel
  products, saving development hours and increasing KPI’s (Key Performance Indicators)
- Developed and maintained a middleware layer of RESTful web services, that is used for transferring data
  between two end-points
- Engineered software that consumed third-party API to interact with custom applications to provide additional
  enriched data to validate changes
- Initiated, led, and implemented software solutions for critical business processes increasing productivity
  throughout the engineering department
- Tools: Java/Groovy, SQL Server, Javascript, RESTful, Jira

### Software Development Engineer

CSG International | Omaha, NE  
2013–2017

Worked on various applications, switching between Java and C# on weekly—sometimes daily—basis. Created RESTful
APIs to communicate with two different issue tracking systems based on two different languages and frameworks.
Designed and implemented several small applications to help migrate or manage information.

- Single-handedly designed and developed desktop application to transfer data from retired testing platform to
  save \$80K in third-party licensing fees
- Analyzed and implemented customized solutions to code plugin defects for Atlassian Jira upgrades
- Became the peer-elected trainer for on-boarding new hires due to excellent communication and teaching skills
- Tools: Java, C#.NET, ASP.NET (MVC), SQL Server, Javascript

### Application Developer

Union Pacific Railroad | Omaha, NE  
2011–2013

Originally hired as an intern and quickly extended a full-time position before graduation. Worked with team members located in India and became the go-to mentor of fellow developers, leading daily scrum meetings, helping with code reviews, and aiding to gather requirements from the business.

- Constructed dynamic reports with graphs for direct access to previously obscure sale/production data
- Optimized complex database schema and queries to reduce processing time by several seconds
- Tools: Java, Spring, Hibernate, JDBC, ColdFusion, Oracle SQL, Javascript

## Projects

### Freelance Web and Social Media Manager

2012–Present

- Created websites for [HALLINS Corporation](https://www.hallinscorp.com), a non-profit organization with limited technical expertise
- Managed domains and web hosting for HALLINS
- Designed promo cards and related call-to-action graphics for various events

### Open Source Contributor

2017-Present

- Designed website for a simulation basketball league, [SIBA](/code/siba), using React, Node.js, PHP, and AWS
- Created [database](/code/dcldb) with authentication for users to manage their lineages for the collection game [Dragon Cave](http://dragcave.net) using Next.js, Bulma CSS framework, and MongoDB.

## Education

### Bachelors of Science in Computer Science

University of Nebraska at Omaha | Omaha, NE

- Honor Graduate (Cum Laude)
- Concentration: Internet Technologies
- Tools: Java, C, PHP, Perl, Javascript, HTML, MySQL, UNIX

Commit message:

Blog Post: Mailchimp attack of the bots + Resume .pdf version and other changes (#25)
* Add post content

* Finish the post, including cover image

* Add .pdf version of version + Fix spacing

content/resume.md, after:

---
title: "Resume"
description: "The professional software developer resume of Brittani S Avery, detailing her 10+ years experience with a wide variety of languages."
thumbnail: meta/resume.png
thumbnailAlt: "A collage of the various computer languages and web frameworks Brittani has used as well as companies where Brittani worked throughout her software developer career."
---

# Resume

"Coder. Writer. Gamer. Nerd." is the tagline for my website and email signature, identifying the main portions of my personality. "Coder" is listed first due to my childhood spent in front of and surrounded by computers, which I discuss in [Part 1](/post/intro-of-me-the-coder) of my introduction posts. My education and profession as a software developer simply solidified that particular ID. Peruse through my professional resume! There is a [.pdf version](/brittani-s-avery-resume.pdf){download} as well.

If you're looking to hire a freelancer, I am available to work. Please [book time with me](https://app.simplymeet.me/brittanisavery/project-consultation) and let's talk about your project. :smile:

## Profile

Self-motivated, full-stack developer with 10+ years of professional experience in software and web development. Renowned for a short learning curve, a wide range of knowledge on various technologies and techniques, and quick turnarounds. Effective in communicating ideas clearly to multicultural and distributed teams while working in an Agile environment. Fluent in French.

## Skills

Javascript :separator: Typescript :separator: React :separator: Redux/Context API :separator: Next.js :separator: Node.js :separator: RESTful APIs :separator: SQL :separator: MongoDB :separator: Java

## Professional Experience

### Senior Software Engineer

SimpleHealth | Remote  
2022–Present
Integrated the complexity of insurance-based payments for SimpleHealth, allowing more options for women and people with ovaries to get birth control easily.

- Developed a messaging system between the SimpleHealth app and the pharmacy API to simplify the workflow for pharmacists
- Built an automatic process to re-send previously failed messages (e.g. outages) to prevent the loss of information between SimpleHealth and the pharmacy
- Intercepted insurance API events and verified insurance copay amounts to charge customers correctly
- Tools: Javascript, Flow Type, React, Node.js, MySQL, Git

### Full-Stack Software Engineer

Science 37 | Remote  
2021–2022  
Built the user interface to flagship product platform and deliver scalable solutions for new features that have the power
to positively impact millions.

- Integrated new feature for trial-based privacy policies, creating UI from mock-ups and API from requirements
- Reviewed code and pull requests to ensure architectural standards and code quality
- Tools: Javascript, React, NodeJS, MySQL, Git

### Frontend Developer

Plain Concepts | Remote  
2020–2021

Maintained and created React websites for various Microsoft projects such as [Microsoft Innovation](https://innovation.microsoft.com/en-us) with an emphasis on internationalization and accessibility as well as frequently changing designs.

- Implemented a new experience for the Microsoft Ignite 2020 conference within the first three weeks of hire
- Created a complex mobile gallery component for [Microsoft Worklab](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/worklab)'s Work Trend Index Reports
- Enhanced user experience for accessing medical articles by creating a newly designed [Microsoft Biomedical Search](https://biomedsearch.microsoft.com/en-us/)
- Tools: Javascript, React, Bootstrap, HTML, CSS, Git

### Software Developer

AgilityHealth | Remote  
2019–2020

Used knowledge from recreational development in React to help team jump start total application migration of
AgilityHealth Radar, the most popular application sold by ATI, from ASP.NET to React.

- Rebuilt the create and edit functionalities for companies in React/Material UI from the older ASP.NET application
- Provided expert knowledge of redux-form, acquired through on-the-job research, to help team overcome
  complex form issues
- Completed frequent design updates with limited turnaround
- Tools: Javascript, React, Redux, Redux-Saga, Material UI, C#, SQL Server

### Full Stack Developer

Conductix-Wampfler | Omaha, NE  
2018–2019

Recruited for vast knowledge of languages, frameworks and expertise in Atlassian products. Successfully became subject matter expert in creating and editing complex workflow validation and related scripts for robust software functionality.

- Created custom application that enabled engineers to generate and modify specifications for manufactured steel
  products, saving development hours and increasing KPI’s (Key Performance Indicators)
- Developed and maintained a middleware layer of RESTful web services, that is used for transferring data
  between two end-points
- Engineered software that consumed third-party API to interact with custom applications to provide additional
  enriched data to validate changes
- Initiated, led, and implemented software solutions for critical business processes increasing productivity
  throughout the engineering department
- Tools: Java/Groovy, SQL Server, Javascript, RESTful, Jira

### Software Development Engineer

CSG International | Omaha, NE  
2013–2017

Worked on various applications, switching between Java and C# on weekly—sometimes daily—basis. Created RESTful
APIs to communicate with two different issue tracking systems based on two different languages and frameworks.
Designed and implemented several small applications to help migrate or manage information.

- Single-handedly designed and developed desktop application to transfer data from retired testing platform to
  save \$80K in third-party licensing fees
- Analyzed and implemented customized solutions to code plugin defects for Atlassian Jira upgrades
- Became the peer-elected trainer for on-boarding new hires due to excellent communication and teaching skills
- Tools: Java, C#.NET, ASP.NET (MVC), SQL Server, Javascript

### Application Developer

Union Pacific Railroad | Omaha, NE  
2011–2013

Originally hired as an intern and quickly extended a full-time position before graduation. Worked with team members located in India and became the go-to mentor of fellow developers, leading daily scrum meetings, helping with code reviews, and aiding to gather requirements from the business.

- Constructed dynamic reports with graphs for direct access to previously obscure sale/production data
- Optimized complex database schema and queries to reduce processing time by several seconds
- Tools: Java, Spring, Hibernate, JDBC, ColdFusion, Oracle SQL, Javascript

## Projects

### Freelance Web and Social Media Manager

2012–Present

- Created websites for [HALLINS Corporation](https://www.hallinscorp.com), a non-profit organization with limited technical expertise
- Managed domains and web hosting for HALLINS
- Designed promo cards and related call-to-action graphics for various events

### Open Source Contributor

2017-Present

- Designed website for a simulation basketball league, [SIBA](/code/siba), using React, Node.js, PHP, and AWS
- Created [database](/code/dcldb) with authentication for users to manage their lineages for the collection game [Dragon Cave](http://dragcave.net) using Next.js, Bulma CSS framework, and MongoDB.

## Education

### Bachelors of Science in Computer Science

University of Nebraska at Omaha | Omaha, NE

- Honor Graduate (Cum Laude)
- Concentration: Internet Technologies
- Tools: Java, C, PHP, Perl, Javascript, HTML, MySQL, UNIX
