content/projects/code/bsa-site.md, before:

---
slug: bsa-site
title: Official Site for Brittani S Avery
fullTitle: Details on Official Site for Brittani S Avery
type: Website
image: projects/bsa-website-versions.png
alt: The homepages of the different versions of my website
tech:
  - Next.js
  - Typescript
  - Bulma CSS Framework
  - Markdown-It
card:
  image: website-card.png
  description: The website you're currently viewing that contains information on my coding projects and books and blog
links:
  - text: View Code
    url: https://github.com/brittaniSavery/personal-website
meta:
  description: The background and coding details of how the official site for Brittani S Avery was made.
  image: meta/website.png
  alt: Next.js, Typescript, Bulma CSS Framework, and Markdown-It were used to create brittanisavery.com.
---

This site, brittanisavery.com, is the official website for all things me. Books, code projects, blog posts, and other updates will be here first and foremost.

## Background

The first version of my personal website solely focused on my life as a published author, highlighting my book. I quickly set up on the drag-and-drop website builder [Wix](https://wix.com/) just in case a non-developer needed to update my website.

I introduced version 2 of my website on May 11, 2020 in the first post of my new blog, [New Year, New Look, Same Me](/post/new-year-new-look-same-me). The shortened version is that I wanted to have my website reflect more than just my life as an author. I feel that I accomplished that well with version 2.

Version 3 is the here and now. I moved away from Wix since it was slow and honestly, I knew that I could build something that better fit my needs. I used Next.js and Bulma (staples in my personal programming) as well as Typescript to try to see what all the buzz is about. I can see where it would be useful, but honestly it's just okay. :shrug:

## Peek Behind the Curtain

The code for the website is available on Github. I am quite proud of how I integrated [Iconify](https://iconify.design/) and [Markdown-It](https://markdown-it.github.io/) into Next. I enjoy uniformity, so seeing the same style of emojis no matter what device one uses makes me happy. :smile:

Commit message:

Dev (#1)
Adding "New Year, New Look: Round 2"  post and new analytics

content/projects/code/bsa-site.md, after:

---
slug: bsa-site
title: Official Site for Brittani S Avery
fullTitle: Details on Official Site for Brittani S Avery
type: Website
image: projects/bsa-website-versions.png
alt: The homepages of the different versions of my website
tech:
  - Next.js
  - Typescript
  - Bulma CSS Framework
  - Markdown-It
card:
  image: website-card.png
  description: The website you're currently viewing that contains information on my coding projects and books and blog
links:
  - text: View Code
    url: https://github.com/brittaniSavery/personal-website
meta:
  description: The background and coding details of how the official site for Brittani S Avery was made.
  image: meta/website.png
  alt: Next.js, Typescript, Bulma CSS Framework, and Markdown-It were used to create brittanisavery.com.
---

This site, brittanisavery.com, is the official website for all things me. Books, code projects, blog posts, and other updates will be here first and foremost.

## Background

The first version of my personal website solely focused on my life as a published author, highlighting my book. I quickly set up on the drag-and-drop website builder [Wix](https://wix.com/) just in case a non-developer needed to update my website.

I introduced version 2 of my website on May 11, 2020 in the first post of my new blog, [New Year, New Look, Same Me](/post/new-year-new-look-same-me). The shortened version is that I wanted to have my website reflect more than just my life as an author. I feel that I accomplished that well with version 2.

Version 3 is the here and now. I moved away from Wix since it was slow and honestly, I knew that I could build something that better fit my needs. I used Next.js and Bulma (staples in my personal programming) as well as Typescript to try to see what all the buzz is about. I can see where it would be useful, but honestly it's just okay. :shrug: You can read more about the creation of this version in the post [New Year, New Look: Round 2](/post/new-year-new-look-round-2).

## Peek Behind the Curtain

The code for the website is available on Github. I am quite proud of how I integrated [Iconify](https://iconify.design/) and [Markdown-It](https://markdown-it.github.io/) into Next. I enjoy uniformity, so seeing the same style of emojis no matter what device one uses makes me happy. :smile:
